.. _Features_of_buildtest:

Features of buildtest
---------------------


.. contents::
   :backlinks: none


buildtest can comes with several features that includes
 - List software 
 - List easybuild toolchains
 - List Software Version Relationship
 - Find YAML configuration
 - Find test scripts

List Software
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

buildtest can report the software list by running the following

.. code::

   buildtest -ls

buildtest determines the software list based on your module tree and these are
apps that can be used for generating tests


.. program-output:: cat scripts/Features_of_buildtest/softwarelist.txt

List Toolchains
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

buildtest can list the toolchain list by running

.. code::

   buildtest -lt

This will get the same result defined by **eb --list-toolchains**, we have
taken the list of toolchains from eb and defined them in buildtest. Any app
built with the any of the toolchains can be used with buildtest to generate
tests.


.. program-output:: cat scripts/Features_of_buildtest/toolchainlist.txt


Software Version Relationship
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you want to find every application in your eb stack with the exact version
you should use 

.. code::

   buildtest -svr

To query all the modules with the corresponding versions. Multiple versions of 
the same application will be separated by comma. Hidden files will be presented 
separately with a leading **.** followed by the version 

.. program-output:: cat scripts/Features_of_buildtest/software_version.txt

Find YAML configs
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To find all yaml configuration use the following

.. code::
   
   buildtest -fc all



This will give you an output of all .yaml files in $BUILDTEST_SOURCE which you can configure based on your test
configuration.

.. program-output:: cat scripts/Features_of_buildtest/find_allyaml.txt


You can search yaml configuration by string match, if you know the name of the YAML file already. For instance if you
are interested in all yaml files with the word **hello** you can run ``buildtest -fc hello`` and this will get you

.. program-output:: cat scripts/Features_of_buildtest/find_hello_yaml.txt

Find test scripts
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To find all test scripts generated by buildtest run 

.. code::

   buildtest -ft all

This will report the full path to all tests currently generated by buildtest.

.. program-output:: cat scripts/Features_of_buildtest/find_alltest.txt

The output of ``buildtest -ft all`` can be very long when you generate lots of tests, its better
to pipe with **grep** command or you can pass a string into ``buildtest -ft <string>`` which 
will do the match.

If you are interested in seeing tests with **gcc** you can run ``buildtest -ft gcc`` and this
will get you 

.. program-output:: cat scripts/Features_of_buildtest/find_gcc_test.txt
